---
title: April 2021 Call
permalink: /calls/2021-04/
tags: [call]
---


# Open311 international group online, session 2

## Participants
Timo "Pyhis" Pyhälahti (SYKE, Helsinki, Finland)
Wolfgang Sprick (VCD Hessen e.V., Germany)
Philip Ashlock (GSA, US Gov)
Holger Bruch (MFDZ)
Devin Balkind (Sarapis)
Andy Maimoni (San Francisco)
Greg Bloom (Open Referral)

## Agenda:
    
* Re-establish monthly meeting? When?
* How to proceed with Open311? Validator, small incremental changes, V3?
* Volunteers for maintaining future Open311 development/website?
* Future of the mailing list


## Monthly
 We will resume monthly meetups. As participants are distributed across diferent time zones we agreed to meet every third tuesday each month at 18:00 Berlin Time, 19:00 Helsinki Time, 12pm EDT, 9am PDT. Next meeting will be on __May, 18th__.


## How to proceed with Open311
* Resume former idea of 2.1: consolidating current spec 

	* machine readable version, validator (never fully completed), OpenAPI Spec (formerly known as Swagger)

	* https://github.com/open311/swagger-open311

	* http://validate.open311.org/ (partially based on the above swagger spec). Code available at https://github.com/open311/schema-validation

	* Not any significant changes from v2.0, just a version that has a consistent machine readable version of the spec and an agreed upon validator

	* Remove room for interpretation, before effort is going into huge changes

	* Validator would check primarily JSON, but we should have a more thorough evaluation of existing use of XML in current implementations to understand the implications of potentially dropping XML support

	* TODO: Contact  Kin Lane for Postman status/demo of [Open311 GeoReport Validator](https://www.postman.com/api-evangelist/workspace/open311/overview)

* Migrated wiki needs some cleanup

	*  Document currently missing [extensions](http://wiki.open311.org/GeoReport_v2/Extensions/)
* Reference existing issues for the spec at https://github.com/open311/open311.github.io/issues

## Volunteering

 For now, anyone who can contribute time is welcome. Philipp will grants permissions to people volunteering to help

* Neil could volunteer (website, community work)
* Timo Pyhälahti (SYKE) interested in helping to edit/curate Use cases and user stories for features/priorities for the spec these examplescould volunteer as one of group
* Holger will organize the monthly meetings (via BBB, unless other propositions come up)

## Future of mailing list/ communication channels
* Ad hoc discussions take place in slack. For joining, see here 
* Mailing list will stay in pace for now, mainly for visibility and for announcements like this meetup
* Discussions should take place via github

## Possible Topics for next meetup

* Requested: Postman status/demo of Open311 GeoReport Validator (Kin Lane)
* Service Inquiry spec? original, HSDA 
* Allow updates/comments to requests
* Observations, to-do-locally, monitoring interest?

